# Customer Trends

### Abstract
This project uses DBSCAN cluster analysis to locate individuals in a credit card company's database who have the potential for increasing revenues. A significant portion of revenue in credit cards comes from per transaction fees charged to businesses who support cards, a fee that is higher for premium cards than non premium cards. Therefore, the key focus of the algorithm is locating premium card holders who are underutilizing their cards, and non premium card holders whose usage and income level suggest they are deserving of rewards. The returned excel file recommends that underutilizing individuals receive cashback deals in an attempt to increase their usage and that non premium card holders who are high use and high income be offered premium status. Both strategies are focused on increasing usage for premium card holders, the segment of the bank with the greatest per transaction return.
An executable version is available for download at  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1b8C6hLOU24gVGhJQ8C1AuYZd-cXPDiuk/view?usp=sharing. It will ask for a .csv file path as input, which is available in Resources.

### File Structure
Demo contains Research.ipynb, an annotated jupyter notebook that explains the analysis that went into developing this model, as well as the output generated by the algorithm when run on BankChurners.csv.
Within trunk is a resources file which contains BankChurners.csv, the original dataset, Identified_Customers.xlsx, the output the algorithm develops after combing BankChurners, and other excel files extracted from intermediate steps in the process.
Within trunk is an src file which contains the .py files that make up the algorithm.

### data_loading.py
This module loads a csv file into a dataframe.

### data_cleaning.py
This module selects and cleans attributes that will be used for clustering from a larger dataset.

### data_preprocessing.py
This module runs preprocessing on a cleaned dataframe. This step mostly involves label encoding of categorical variables.

### cluster_builder.py
This module builds clusters by optimizing the sklearn DBSCAN algorithm and assigns labels to each observation.

### outlier_locator.py
Identifies recommended strategies for customers located outside of normal ranges of utilization, net transactions, and income level.

### profit_finder.py
This module combines the functionality of the other modules to create an excel file containing individuals with high revenue potential.